.TH IPTABLES\-ANALYZER 1 "2026-03-24" "0.2.0" "iptables-analyzer manual"
.SH NAME
iptables\-analyzer \- analyze iptables/ip6tables firewall rules for security issues
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iptables\-analyzer
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B iptables\-analyzer
inspects iptables and ip6tables rules to identify security weaknesses, including
shadowed or ineffective rules, Docker NAT bypasses that make INPUT rules useless,
services exposed to the network, and missing best practices. It provides a
security score and actionable recommendations.
.PP
When run as root without any file arguments, it reads rules directly from the
live system. Otherwise, provide saved rule files with \fB\-f\fR and \fB\-\-file6\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file " \fIFILE\fR"
Path to iptables-save output file (IPv4 rules).
.TP
.BR \-\-file6 " \fIFILE\fR"
Path to ip6tables-save output file (IPv6 rules).
.TP
.BR \-4 ", " \-\-ipv4\-only
Analyze only IPv4 rules.
.TP
.BR \-6 ", " \-\-ipv6\-only
Analyze only IPv6 rules.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.BR \-\-json
Output results as JSON.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Show all rules including empty chains.
.TP
.BR \-\-services\-file " \fIFILE\fR"
Path to saved
.BR ss (8)
output file (alternative to live service detection).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-score\-only
Only print the security score.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run live analysis as root (auto-detects rules and listening services):
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
sudo iptables\-analyzer
.EE
.RE
.PP
Analyze saved rule files:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
iptables\-analyzer \-f rules.v4 \-\-file6 rules.v6
.EE
.RE
.PP
Analyze saved rules with saved service data:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
iptables\-analyzer \-f rules.v4 \-\-services\-file services.txt
.EE
.RE
.PP
Output only the security score:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
sudo iptables\-analyzer \-s
.EE
.RE
.PP
Save rules for offline analysis:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
sudo iptables\-save > rules.v4
sudo ip6tables\-save > rules.v6
.EE
.RE
.PP
Save listening services for offline analysis:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
ss \-tlnp > services.txt
ss \-ulnp >> services.txt
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iptables (8),
.BR ip6tables (8),
.BR iptables\-save (8),
.BR ip6tables\-save (8),
.BR ss (8)
.SH AUTHORS
iptables\-analyzer was written by c0m4r.
.PP
Source code: https://github.com/c0m4r/iptables\-analyzer
